# Question 3

### 3. Where are the city’s economic development licenses? Which communities are benefitting? Which communities are being left out?

- Looking at the Business licenses Jupyter Notebook, we are analyzing food, alcohol, cannabis and general licenses in the GBA.
- In addition, take note of the map displayed that shows the locations for each of those licenses. Red points indicate general licenses, food indicates food, yellow indicates alcohol and lime indicates cannabis. The general licenses overlap with many of the specific licenses. From the map, you can see that many of the licenses are concentrated around the city center of Boston and become more sparse the further away they are from the center.
- As for the number of licenses per city, in each dataset Boston, Dorchester and East Boston have some of the highest amounts of licenses, while Hyde Park, Chestnut Hill and Mattapan have some of the lowest amounts of licenses. It's hard to say whether this gap is due to the difference in population, population density or difference in funding given the limits current dataset, but once we start to merge this information with some of the other provided datasets we may find a clearer reason as to why this is the case.
- We also analyzed the amount of food licenses specific to take out, which is especially relevant given a global pandemic or any future public health emergency. Again, this is consistent with the above findings, suggesting on a surface level that those communities on the lower end may not be prepared for a situation where restaurants are closed for dine-in
- Finally, we have analyzed the relative time periods where licenses are being issued. Liquor licenses and general licenses have seldom been issued since 2014, whereas food licenses are increasingly being issued. As for license expiry dates, they mostly seem to be located about 1-2 years in the future, suggesting that businesses do not have a lot of time to update their licenses.
- Some more questions that can eventually be answered with this data:
	- How do business licenses compare by different "Doing Business As" names in different cities? Do certain businesses dominate certain cities?
	- How do opening and closing times compare across different cities? Does that impact the number of businesses in that area?
	- How are businesses distributed by license category or type?
	- Look further into Cannabis dataset: map out different application statuses, and the split of facilities seeking Boston Equity Program and where they arre respectively located, map out different types of Marijuana Licenses.